Python pcl update (#385)
ros-industrial/industrial_training: gh_pages/_source/session5/Simple-PCL-Interface-for-Python.rst

Intro (Review Existing Code)
----------------------------

Most of the infrastructure for a ROS 2 node has already been completed for you; the focus of this exercise is the perception algorithms/pipeline and the use of a pure Python ROS package. There are two packages provided for you: ``py_perception`` and ``filter_call``. 

At this time we will explore the source code that has been provided in the ``py_perception_node.cpp`` file. This tutorial has been modified from training `Exercise 5.1 Building a Perception Pipeline <http://ros-industrial.github.io/industrial_training/_source/session5/Building-a-Perception-Pipeline.html>`__ and as such the C++ code has already been set up. Open the ``perception_node.cpp`` file and review the filtering functions.

.. Note:: For an extra challenge, after completing exercise 5.1, try adding the missing filters into our new ``py_perception_node`` here. 

Using a Python Package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now that we have converted several filters to C++ functions, we are ready to call it from a Python node.

Take a look at the ``filter_call`` package and note the differences in structure between a pure Python package and a C++ package. 

> We will not be including ‘perception_msgs’ as a dependency as we will not be creating custom messages in this course. If you wish for a more in depth explanation including how to implement customer messages, here is a good `MIT resource <http://duckietown.mit.edu/media/pdfs/1rpRisFoCYUm0XT78j-nAYidlh-cDtLCdEbIaBCnx9ew.pdf>`__ on the steps taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will not be including ‘perception_msgs’ as a dependency as we will not be creating custom messages in this course. If you wish for a more in depth explanation including how to implement custom messages, `MIT has a resource <http://duckietown.mit.edu/media/pdfs/1rpRisFoCYUm0XT78j-nAYidlh-cDtLCdEbIaBCnx9ew.pdf>`__ on the steps taken.
```

              {
                  case py_perception::srv::FilterCloud::Request::VOXELGRID :
                  {
                      filtered_cloud = voxelGrid(cloud, 0.01);
                      break;
                  }
                  default :
                  {
                      RCLCPP_ERROR(this->get_logger(), "no point cloud found");
                      response->success = false;
                      return;
                  }
              }
              /*
               * SETUP RESPONSE
               */
              pcl::toROSMsg(*filtered_cloud, response->output_cloud);
              response->output_cloud.header = request->input_cloud.header;
              response->output_cloud.header.frame_id = "kinect_link";
              response->success = true;
          }

#. Now that we have the framework for the filtering on the server side, let's start setting up the client side. Find and open the script ``filter_call.py`` in your ``filter_call`` package.

#. Examine the provided code and functions in the script. Take note of some similarities and differences between how the Python node is set up versus a C++ node. 

> #. Call the service to apply a Voxel Grid filter. Find the the function for applying a voxel grid filter and insert the following code below the banner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Call the service to apply a Voxel Grid filter. Find the function for applying a voxel grid filter and insert the following code below the banner
```

   .. code-block:: python
   
        # =======================
        # VOXEL GRID FILTER
        # =======================
        
   #. We first create a service request of type FilterCloud and populate it with the necessary information:

      .. code-block:: python

           req = FilterCloud.Request()
           req.pcdfilename = self.pcdfilename
           req.operation = py_perception.srv.FilterCloud.Request.VOXELGRID
           req.input_cloud = PointCloud2()

           # ERROR HANDLING
           if req.pcdfilename == '':

>                self.get_logger().error('No file parameter found')

Reviewer: Assuming we don't want the function to continue if there's no filename.
```suggestion
               self.get_logger().error('No file parameter found')
               return
```

   #. Next we can send a request to the server node and wait for a response:

      .. code-block:: python

           future = self.client.call_async(req)
           rclpy.spin_until_future_complete(self, future)
           res_voxel = future.result()
           if not res_voxel.success:
               self.get_logger().error('Unsuccessful voxel grid filter operation')

   #. Finally, we publish our new filtered point cloud:

      .. code-block::python

           self.voxel_pub.publish(res_voxel.output_cloud)
           self.last_cloud = res_voxel
           self.get_logger().info("published: voxel grid filter response")

> #. Before running our new node, we need to make the Python file executable. In your terminal:

Reviewer: Colcon doesn't do this?  Is the install space script correctly marked as executable?

Author: i have no idea

   .. code-block:: bash

            sudo chmod +x scripts/filter_call.py

   then open ``setup.bash`` and modify ``entry_points`` to read

   .. code-block:: python

         entry_points={
           'console_scripts': [
               'filter_call = filter_call.filter_call:main'
           ],

#. Re-build and re-source your workspace.

Viewing Results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. In your terminal, source a new terminal and run the C++ filter service node

   .. code-block:: bash

            ros2 run py_perception perception_node

#. Source a new terminal and run the ``tf2_ros`` package to publish a static coordinate transform from the child frame to the world frame

   .. code-block:: bash
   

>             ros2 run tf2_ros static_transform_publisher 0 0 0 0 0 0 world_frame kinect_link

Reviewer: Is there an existing launch file this could be added to?

#. Source a new terminal and run the Python service client node. Note your file path may be different.

   .. code-block:: bash

            ros2 run filter_call filter_call --ros-args -p pcdfilename:=/home/tcappellari/table.pcd

#. Source a new terminal and run Rviz

   .. code-block:: bash

            ros2 run rviz2 rviz2

#. Add a new PointCloud2 in Rviz

> #. In global options, change the fixed frame to **kinect_link** or **world_frame**, and in the PointCloud 2, select your topic to be '/perception_voxelGrid'

Reviewer: We could recommend saving the rviz config.
